Sung Joon Lim
CS 540
Homework 1
02.05.2019

	Stanford One Hundred Year Study on Artificial Intelligence shows several fields of society where AI technology will have great influence. AI technology for transportation was one of the major domains. In fact, study believes that autonomous vehicle technology will reduce accidents and increase transportation efficiency. This technology is actually at the close level of becoming commercialized. The study predicts that algorithms required for driving nearly perform like humans and will soon become widely adopted. However, this self-driving AI technology will never overcome problems involving ethical dilemmas and cause major issues. 
      Self-driving AI face several problems. As a matter of fact, there is no algorithm that is perfectly safe. Even though main goal of development is to eliminate accidents, it is impossible. For example, technological error like failing to detect small objects that lead to accidents can occur. Moreover, there is always issue of responsibility in case of accidents. These problems can lead to trust and communication problems with other drivers and pedestrians. Since AI is likely to believe that humans will act same as programed algorithms, AI cannot perfectly predict human actions. 
       Out of all the difficulty that autonomous AI is facing, ethical decision-making is the biggest problem. For AI algorithm to gain trust from civilians, it must overcome ethical dilemmas so that people will understand its actions during unavoidable accidents. For example, if there is situation where only one target can be saved, AI algorithm have to decide which target to run over. The system should not decide to choose randomly or hit both since there is always reason to choose one over the other, whether it’s size, weight, or even prices. Moreover, in the situation where many victims are expected, AI must decide whether to self-sacrifice or self-protect. Choosing path to self-sacrifice and minimizing the overall casualties seems reasonable and also ethically make sense. However, even people who think that this is the better way than self-protecting will actually hesitate to ride when they are part of the passenger and become victims if accidents happen. Also, because drivers making their own decision to self-sacrifice is very different from systems doing it for them.
       Development of self-driving AI might decrease overall losses by reducing accidents and increase benefit with more efficiency. However, it will never become perfect since some of the accidents are just physically unavoidable. Due to these rare cases, people must choose how AI system will be preprogrammed to react. However, there is no correct solution for this. As system for autonomous AI algorithms become ready to go, after choosing some solutions to this dilemma, and as amount of usage of self-driving cars increase, accidents will also increase. And as accident increase, new problems will constantly rise to issue with no specific answers at the end.
